Date	Type	Topics	Summary	Report
24-Apr-13	Discussion session	Digital materials (digitized from Harvard collections);  Digital materials (acquired from vendors); Digital materials (access vs. ownership)	Suggestion to make references to 'digital collections' more specific. Broad language obscures important nuances and implications.	Has been addressed throughout the document in different places
24-Apr-13	Discussion session	Collaboration and/or coordination (internal); Motivation	Query about the motivation of the document and a comment that libraries have collaborated in the past but the document does not acknowledge this.	"Motivation addressed in Introduction and Executive Summary; We have cited Science Library Council as an existing, ongoing collaborative effort, and have made it clear in Recommendation #7 that successful collaborations have been underway for years. Duplication Recommendation in  #11 has been minimized somewhat, and the recommendation has been pushed to later in the document. Prospective duplication is recommended and not retrospective duplication."
24-Apr-13	Discussion session	Governance; Implementation; Terminology	Clarification requested about the governance models and how they work; Suggestion that document include illustrations of the various models; Prefer 'facilitator' to governance.	"Governance has been removed entirely from the Final Report, has been alluded to in Next Steps, and has been renamed as Facilitation instead. Implementation of facilitation will await the arrival of the VP for the Harvard Library. There was also a special open discussion session around the topic of Governance."
24-Apr-13	Discussion session	Collaboration and/or coordination (internal); Governance; Implementation	Clarification requested as to what is meant by the 'constituencies' described in the Executive Summary. Suggestion to include these constituents in the governance section.	"The 'constituencies' have been removed from the Final Report, although the issues were discussed at length during the Open Sessions."
24-Apr-13	Discussion session	Collaboration and/or coordination (internal); User-centric focus	Comment that one participant thought that the collaboration principles in the document were exciting.	None needed
24-Apr-13	Discussion session	Harvard Depository	Clarification was requested about Harvard Depository recommendation.	The reference to HD as single library was removed entirely and Recommendation #9 was reworded to review current use and support for the Harvard Depository.
24-Apr-13	Discussion session	Collections development policies; Decision rights; Duplication	Query about the effect that minimizing duplication has on decision rights.	The Final Report indicates that decision rights need to be addressed in the Implementation phase. It is #1 in the Dependencies section of the Final Report. The topic was also discussed during Open Sessions.
24-Apr-13	Discussion session	Courier service	Observation that the courier service in recommendation # 12 is essential to making the collaboration work.	None needed
24-Apr-13	Discussion session	General criticism; Implementation 	Request for a recommendation about using Harvard's collective strength to negotiate with vendors.  	"Negotiating with vendors, etc. is an implementation detail that will be addressed during the implementation phase after the Final Report is approved by the Library Board."
25-Apr-13	Discussion session	Alignment with the curriculum; Digital materials (e-resources)	"Comment that the document's focus on moving from print to digital is appreciated, as is its stated goal of fostering a stronger alignment with curriculum."	Several of these topics are specifically addressed in the Introduction and Recommendation #2 (curricular research).
25-Apr-13	Discussion session	Collecting for the ages (versus immediate needs); Terminology	Clarification requested for the phrase 'collecting for the ages'.	Term was clarified Recommendations #2 and #3.
25-Apr-13	Discussion session	Alignment with the curriculum; Collecting for the ages (versus immediate needs)	"Comment that the Faculty Advisory Council has many people on it who are highly interested in collecting for the ages, not just meeting immediate needs"	"Addressed in Recommendations #1, #2, and #3."
25-Apr-13	Discussion session	Governance; Technology and tools	"Comment that tools like POOF, Gobi can help with tracking orders and duplicates. Avoiding a bureaucracy for governance is essential"	"This topic depends upon how collaboratives and facilitation is implemented and therefore it is somewhat out of scope for this Final Report. For collections development policies, that is a common library practice, addressed in Recommendation #6. Recommendation #7's Science Library Council also demonstrates that these kinds of activities can be added to daily business without onerous bureaucracy."
25-Apr-13	Discussion session	Digital materials (e-resources)	Concern expressed about moving too quickly away from print monographs to electronic resources	"High cost of e-journals is out of scope for the Final Report (it's the reason that why we are collaborating; we're already addressing this in the duplication recommendation). Recommendation #11 discusses the importance of managing life-cycle costs. Also, Recommendation #1 also discusses managing the choice between e-resources and print resources."
25-Apr-13	Discussion session	Decision rights; Technology and tools	Confusion expressed over what was meant by 'clearinghouse of targeted e-book packages'	The language was changed in Recommendation #1 to read: 'create a clearinghouse of information about targeted e-book packages' to clarify this.
25-Apr-13	Discussion session	Governance	A governance model proposed by a respondent places the facilitator at the organizational level of a shared services head	Models for facilitation were discussed at a special Open Session on governance. Implementation of a specific facilitator role is not in scope for this Final Report.
26-Apr-13	Review Committee	Governance	Recommendation to change language to 'manage' or 'facilitate'	This change was made and the Governance section of the Final Report was removed.
26-Apr-13	Review Committee	Governance	Strong support voiced for single role of coordination	Topic was discussed in multiple Open Sessions.
26-Apr-13	Review Committee	Governance	Request to clarify what is meant by governance/management	Topic was discussed in multiple Open Sessions.
26-Apr-13	Review Committee	Collections development policies	Suggestion to emphasize making adherence to policy as easy as possible on staff	By stating that creating collections development policies are a profession best practice and providing common data elements in the Final Report makes it easy for librarians.
26-Apr-13	Review Committee	Access versus ownership	Request to clarify distinction between access and acquisition	"Recommendation #1 challenges address many of these concerns. Differences between disciplines are acknowledged throughout the report, such as the Executive Summary."
26-Apr-13	Review Committee	Harvard Depository	Suggestion to remove the second sentence about circulating collections in the Harvard Depository	The reference to HD as single library was removed entirely and Recommendation #9 was reworded to review current use and support for the Harvard Depository.
26-Apr-13	Review Committee	Digital materials	Suggestion to change the ratio of challenges to benefits for Recommendation #1	Addressed in Recommendation #1 in the Final Report
26-Apr-13	Review Committee	Collaboration and/or coordination (internal); Duplication	Document should be refocused to emphasize collaboration rather than minimizing duplication	"This refocusing was completed, especially in Recommendation #11. Duplication was also moved to a less prominent place in the list."
26-Apr-13	Review Committee	Digital materials	"Clarify that digital surrogates must be stable and from trusted, long-term sources"	This was addressed using language of 'trustworthy' in Recommendation #1. The Introduction also acknowledges the uncertainty around digital preservation.
26-Apr-13	Review Committee	General criticism	Suggestion made to emphasize collaboration in the introduction of the document	Doug's concepts were integrated into the Final Report rather than stated as a single paragraph.
26-Apr-13	Review Committee	Technology and tools	Suggestion to explore using technology to facilitate collaboration	"Tools and technology was mentioned in relation to acquisition of new materials . A searchable, electronic database of collections development policies was raised in Next Steps and Recommendation #6."
30-Apr-13	Discussion session	Museums	Comment that museums were not mentioned in the document	Museums were brought up specifically in the Introduction of the Final Report.
30-Apr-13	Discussion session	Collections development policies; Collaboration and/or coordination (internal)	Collections development policies are not a panacea	"This topic was addressed specifically in the Open Sessions. It was also addressed in the common data elements for collections development policies in the Appendix 2 of the Final Report. Also, most people rejected this argument in the Discussion sessions."
30-Apr-13	Discussion session	Funding	Comment that differences in library budgets may affect collecting decisions	Funding and implementation was not in scope for this Final Report.
30-Apr-13	Discussion session	Funding; Decision rights	Query about how should the intersection of funding ability and decision rights be managed?	Funding and implementation was not in scope for this Final Report.
30-Apr-13	Discussion session	Digital materials; User-centric focus	Query about how a library retains its local character in an environment that emphasizes seamless experience for the user	"It is explicitly stated in the Introduction and Executive Summary, including elsewhere, that collections development will remain local"
30-Apr-13	Discussion session	Digital materials (digitized from Harvard collections); Duplication; Paper artifacts	Digitization paradoxically causes patrons to wish to see the original paper artifact. Paper artifacts still matter.	"Recommendation #3 acknowledges the value of print materials. The value of analog materials is acknowledged elsewhere as well, such as the Introduction and Executive Summary."
30-Apr-13	Discussion session	Paper artifacts	Observation that material culture is an active area of research and that physical artifacts do matter.	"See previous point. Recommendation #3 specifies materials in all formats, and Recommendation #5 also indicates all formats as well."
30-Apr-13	Discussion session	Digital materials; Digital materials (digitized from Harvard collections); Funding	"Query about how best to fund expensive, labor-intensive digitization projects?"	Funding and implementation was not in scope for this Final Report.
30-Apr-13	Discussion session	Digital materials (digitized from Harvard collections); Infrastructure; Technology and tools	Comment that a robust infrastructure is needed to support digital collections.	"Recommendation #10 explicitly calls for the creation of a digitization program, Recommendation #4 acknowledges that greater investment in IT is needed to sustain and build collections; and in Dependencies for Success, #2 specifically identifies technology infrastructure as a necessary step."
30-Apr-13	Discussion session	Digital materials (e-resources)	"Suggestion that libraries should emphasize Open Access more and become the owners of digital content, rather than lease digital materials from vendors."	Open Access is mentioned directly in the Executive Summary and Recommendation #1.
30-Apr-13	Discussion session	Collaboration and/or coordination (internal); Implementation	Query whether intra-Harvard collaborations/collaboratives apply to special collections?	Recommendation #6 and #7 address this issue.
30-Apr-13	Discussion session	User-centric focus; Metrics	"Comment that a user-centric focus is desirable, but we must also be able to measure/assess user needs. This may be a challenge vis a vis special collections."	Recommendation #13 addresses qualitative and quantitative assessments and Recommendation #4 puts the user at the center of the network of resources implying that user needs will be considered.
30-Apr-13	Discussion session	Collecting for the ages (versus immediate needs)	Comment that the document contains too much emphasis on satisfying current needs and not enough on collecting for the ages	Some language was reordered to make sure the emphasis was more equal between the two 'poles'. Recommendation #2 was rewritten carefully to put established/traditional first.
30-Apr-13	Discussion session	Collections life-cycle	Comment that it is important to consider life-cycle costs when acquiring new materials	"Important point, but out of scope for this Final Report."
30-Apr-13	Discussion session	Governance	"Comment that, regarding governance models, the job of coordinating/facilitating collections development seems to be too large for one person. Did the Affinity Group Heads look to other institutions for models on how best to achieve this facilitation?"	A special session was created to discussion governance/facilitation. The topic of Governance/Facilitation was removed from the Final Report.
30-Apr-13	Discussion session	Funding	Query about whether plans exist for funding the various recommendations in this document?	Funding and implementation was not in scope for this Final Report.
3-May-13	Discussion session	Collections development is local	Comment that there appears to be a contradiction between collecting as a local activity and a unified collection belonging to the University as a whole. How can this contradiction be resolved?	Collections remain local but there is significant collaboration via collaboratives to ensure that there is cohesion among the libraries across Harvard
3-May-13	Discussion session	Collaboration and/or coordination (internal)	"Query about which role, group, or groups monitors interdisciplinary collecting decisions?"	"Academic planning committees, collaboratives, collections development polices all contribute to 'looking after' interdisciplinary interests"
3-May-13	Discussion session	Governance	Suggestion made to illustrate the various governance models that have been proposed.	"Governance has been removed entirely from the Final Report, has been alluded to in Next Steps. The Science Librarians are developing a Venn diagram for subjects showing overlaps/etc."
3-May-13	Discussion session	Collections development policies	Query whether Library of Congress subject headings be chosen as the common language for all collections development policies?	LC is out of the report at this moment; a system will be discussed during the Implementation Phase.
3-May-13	Discussion session	Governance	Query about strategies for setting up the facilitator role for collections governance.	Governance has been removed entirely from the Final Report
3-May-13	Discussion session	Funding	A fund to support interdisciplinary collections was proposed.	Funding and implementation was not in scope for this Final Report.
3-May-13	Discussion session	Funding	Query about the implications of the fact that schools add new research areas but do not necessarily fund library support for those programs?	Funding and implementation was not in scope for this Final Report.
3-May-13	Discussion session	Document development process	Query about whether there any surprises that the Affinity Group Heads encountered during their research?	None needed
3-May-13	Discussion session	Alignment with the curriculum (pedagogical materials)	Appreciation was expressed for the emphasis in the report on learning objects and pedagogical materials.	None needed
3-May-13	Discussion session	Collaboration and/or coordination (external)	Examples of external collaborations were requested.	None needed
3-May-13	Discussion session	Harvard Depository	Query about the controversial nature of the Harvard Depository recommendation.	None needed
6-May-13	Discussion session	Collaboration and/or coordination (internal); Governance	Query about the relationship between the collaboratives and the proposed governance models.	Governance has been removed entirely from the Final Report
6-May-13	Discussion session	Collaboration and/or coordination (internal); Governance	Query about the authority/control the facilitator or facilitating group would have over decision rights.	Governance has been removed entirely from the Final Report
6-May-13	Discussion session	Funding; Governance	Query about the relationship between governance models and funding from the schools.	Governance has been removed entirely from the Final Report
6-May-13	Discussion session	Governance	Query about the value of the hybrid system of collections development (where collecting decisions remain local but there is a higher level of coordination).	None needed
6-May-13	Discussion session	Harvard Depository	"Opinion expressed that libraries, as a whole, need to identify new ways to work with the Depository and possibly new ways of deciding what materials are sent to the Depository."	Recommendation #9 was rewritten to accommodate investigation into use of HD
6-May-13	Discussion session	Collections development policies	Surprise expressed that many libraries do not have collections development policies.	None needed
6-May-13	Discussion session	Digital materials (digitized from Harvard collections)	"Suggestion made that it would be ideal to have a strategic, coordinated program to support the digitization of Harvard's holdings. "	Recommendation #10 now explicitly calls for the creation of a digitization program
6-May-13	Discussion session	Harvard Depository; Collections development policies	"Query about the future of the Harvard Depository, specifically its policies for deposit and use."	Recommendation #9 was rewritten to accommodate investigation into use of HD
6-May-13	Discussion session	Collaboration and/or coordination (internal)	Suggestion that librarians more readily share information that they are getting from vendors to avoid having vendors play one library against another.	Collaboratives mentioned in Recommendation #7 addresses this topic; Also Recommendation #1 covers better coordination for acquiring e-resources.
6-May-13	Discussion session	Implementation	Query about the timeline for implementation of these recommendations?	"Implementation, including a suggested timeline, has now been included in the Next Steps of the report."
8-May-13	Discussion session	Document development process	Query about the response has the document had thus far: have there been any specific areas of enthusiasm?	Lack of collections development policies was a big surprise.
8-May-13	Discussion session	Collections development is local	Appreciation was expressed for the recognition that collections development should remain local and for the expertise in each local library.	None needed
8-May-13	Discussion session	Digital materials; Infrastructure; Technology and tools	"Observation that more and better infrastructure, including availability of project managers, is needed to help repositories complete small-scale and large-scale digital projects."	"Recommendation #10 now explicitly calls for the creation of a digitization program; Dependencies mention more infrastructure, including staff."
8-May-13	Discussion session	Collections development policies; Collaboration and/or coordination (internal)	Agreement was expressed with the recommendation that all libraries have and share written collections development policies to support intra-Harvard collaborations. Query was raised about external collaborations as well.	External collaborations are addressed in Recommendation #8
8-May-13	Discussion session	Collaboration and/or coordination (internal); Document development process	Appreciation was expressed about the outreach around this document to encourage and solicit community engagement and discussion.	None needed
8-May-13	Discussion session	Digital materials (Open Access)	Query about the commitment of Harvard to Open Access.	"Recommendation #1 speaks to Open Access, as does the Executive Summary. Setting Open Access policy is outside the purview of this report."
8-May-13	Discussion session	Collaboration and/or coordination (internal)	Desire expressed for a framework (infrastructure) to support collections development projects beyond digital projects.	Collaboratives mentioned in Recommendation #7 addresses this topic.
8-May-13	Individual Feedback	Digital materials; Digital materials (digitized from Harvard collections)	One participant provided comprehensive suggestions about digitization projects.	Feedback was incorporated into Recommendation #10.
9-May-13	Affinity Group Meeting	Document development process	"Query about modifications that have been made to the document thus far, especially regarding minimization of duplication."	"Not all the elements of the Interim Reports were incorporated into the Discussion Document, and then the later Final Report"
9-May-13	Affinity Group Meeting	Collections development policies; Decision rights; Duplication	"Query about current, on-going work to minimize duplication, and the prioritization of strategies proposed in the document against work that is currently being undertaken."	These issues around priorities are addressed in the Dependencies section and the Next Steps. This Final Report forces consideration of collections development into the discussion and planning of other initiatives
9-May-13	Affinity Group Meeting	Digital materials	"Query regarding digital materials and if the recommendations apply to formats beyond print, such as images."	"Recommendation #10 was added, language about multiple formats was added in Recommendation #3."
9-May-13	Affinity Group Meeting	Collaboration and/or coordination (internal); Technology and tools	Desire expressed for greater library and faculty collaboration and engagement.	"Recommendation #5, partnering with faculty, addresses part of this issue. External collaborations are addressed in Recommendation #8"
9-May-13	Affinity Group Meeting	Faculty engagement	Query about the methods for achieving faculty buy-in to implement recommendations.	The Final Report was prepared with direct engagement between the AGHs and faculty members.
9-May-13	Affinity Group Meeting	Human resource sharing; Implementation	Query about whether other institutions have had success with using 'embedded librarians'.	Indirectly part of Recommendation #5 working directly with faculty. It is also in the Dependencies section. We have also emphasized the fact that collections development is a local enterprise.
9-May-13	Affinity Group Meeting	Collections development policies	Query about community response to recommendation about collections development policies.	"Community response was mostly positive, and Recommendation #6 was clarified to address local needs and to state more clearly what the goal of creating policies is."
9-May-13	Affinity Group Meeting	Metrics	Query about who will be responsible for designing and conducting assessments.	This topic falls into the Implementation of the recommendations; outside of the purview of this document.
9-May-13	Affinity Group Meeting	Differences between disciplines; Digital materials (e-resources)	Comment that there are differences between disciplines (possibly relating to electronic resources?).	Greater acknowledgement of the differences between disciplines throughout the Final Report.
9-May-13	Affinity Group Meeting	General criticism	Comment that flexibility (in collecting?) is desirable.	The collections development policy components allow for great deal of flexibility.
9-May-13	Affinity Group Meeting	Harvard Depository	Query regarding the recommendation involving the Harvard Depository.	Recommendation #9 was rewritten to accommodate investigation into use of HD
9-May-13	Affinity Group Meeting	Digital materials (digitized from Harvard collections); Digital materials (e-resources); Terminology	Request was made to clarify the term 'digital materials.'	"Recommendation #10 was added, language about multiple formats was added in Recommendation #3."
9-May-13	Affinity Group Meeting	Scan and deliver	Comment that digitization of materials should be carefully planned. Can be valuable for special collections materials.	Recommendation #10 was added to suggest the creation of a digitization program.
9-May-13	Affinity Group Meeting	Faculty engagement; Governance	"Observation that faculty buy-in is essential to implement some of the recommendations, especially the governance models."	The Final Report was prepared with direct engagement between the AGHs and faculty members. Governance is outside the scope of this Final Report.
9-May-13	Affinity Group Meeting	Governance	Comment that the governance role could be a larger task than could be accomplished by a single person	Governance is outside the scope of this Final Report.
9-May-13	Affinity Group Meeting	Governance	Observation that groups tend to have slow response times	"Collaboratives are designed to be nimble, and other governance/implementation issues are out of scope for the Final Report. Ad hoc, as well as longer term working teams have also been recommended."
9-May-13	Affinity Group Meeting	Governance	Queries about the mechanics of the governance models.	Governance is outside the scope of this Final Report.
9-May-13	Affinity Group Meeting	Governance	"Clarification suggested about the governance models, in particular the sections in bold."	Governance is outside the scope of this Final Report.
9-May-13	Affinity Group Meeting	Differences between disciplines	Query about how best to manage the differing needs of the various faculties.	"Differences between disciplines are acknowledged throughout the report, such as the Executive Summary."
9-May-13	Affinity Group Meeting	Shared services involvement	Query regarding how the recommendations interact with/intersect with the shared services.	The Final Report was prepared with input from Shared Services.
9-May-13	Affinity Group Meeting	Scan and deliver	Query about whether the scan and deliver service still operates locally.	None needed
9-May-13	Affinity Group Meeting	Digital materials (digitized from Harvard collections)	Comment needs further interpretation.	"Recommendation #10 explicitly calls for the creation of a digitization program, "
10-May-13	Online Forum	Faculty engagement	Desire expressed for more faculty engagement with collections development professionals.	"This faculty member was contacted directly about collections development in the specific subject area of interest. The Final Report also emphasizes working directly with faculty in several places including the Executive Summary, Introduction, and Recommendations #2, #3, #4, #5, #14, and Next Steps."
13-May-13	Affinity Group Meeting	Motivation; Document development process	Query about the purpose and motivation of the document: is it a collections development policy or a statement of a strategic direction?	None needed
13-May-13	Affinity Group Meeting	Collaboration and/or coordination (internal); Implementation	Concern raised over the implications of implementing the recommendations.	"Implementation suggestions, including a suggested timeline, has now been included in the Next Steps of the report."
13-May-13	Affinity Group Meeting	Duplication	Query about the current level of duplication across the libraries.	"A direct response was not needed in the report. Overlap of effort is addressed, rather than duplication of materials."
13-May-13	Affinity Group Meeting	Collecting for the ages (versus immediate needs); Implementation	Query about how best to meet current needs while simultaneously collecting for the ages.	The concept was clarified throughout the Final Report
13-May-13	Affinity Group Meeting	Staffing concerns	"Concern raised about the staffing implications of the recommendations, especially staffing at Widener Library."	Collections development remains a local function. Implement details like this are not in the scope of this report.
13-May-13	Affinity Group Meeting	Harvard Depository	Concern raised over long term storage at Harvard Depository and general deaccessioning	"Recommendation #9 was reworded to specify the review of current use and support for the Harvard Depository. Also, #12 (Courier Service) may also help reduce the need for some duplication."
13-May-13	Affinity Group Meeting	Collaboration and/or coordination (internal); Implementation	Assertion made that having the participation of members of FAS is essential to implement the recommendations successfully.	"Open Sessions were held to allow for participation in the development of the report. Otherwise, this is a local issue."
13-May-13	Affinity Group Meeting	Collections development policies	Suggestions made about alternate ways to make use of the information stored in the collections development policies in the recommendation. 	None needed
13-May-13	Affinity Group Meeting	Collections development policies; Collaboration and/or coordination (internal)	Observation that some of the recommendations may override local collections development policies.	"Yes, this true. There will need to be collaboration in the development and maintenance of these policies so Harvard can collect more materials."
13-May-13	Affinity Group Meeting	Collections development policies; Governance	Concern expressed at coordinating changes to collections development policies and practices when those decisions will impact other libraries.	Collaboratives were proposed in Recommendation #7 and an on-going practice of evaluation is proposed in Recommendations #6 and #13.
13-May-13	Affinity Group Meeting	Collections development is local	Observation that the choice to purchase digital versus print materials is and/or should be a local issue.	"Yes, the principle that collections are local is reaffirmed throughout the document."
15-May-13	Discussion session	Collaboration and/or coordination (internal)	Suggestion to adopt a geographical approach to collaborative collections development 	This is a recommendation about how to implement coordinated activities; This will be discussed as collaboratives are formed.
15-May-13	Discussion session	Shared services involvement	Observation that technical services will be impacted by implementing more coordination and collaboration for collections development.	This is addressed in the Dependencies section of the Final Report and Recommendation #4.
15-May-13	Discussion session	Harvard collections (composition of)	Query about subject gaps across collections.	This topic will be addressed when collections development policies are implemented and shared and searchable.
15-May-13	Discussion session	Governance; Collaboration and/or coordination (internal); Collaboration and/or coordination (external)	Concern about the scope of the governance activities and that it could generate needless bureaucracy.	Governance was removed from the Final Report.
15-May-13	Discussion session	Collaboration and/or coordination (internal)	"Observation that current collaborations are informal, have varying degrees of organization, and that sometimes decision rights are determined by which library places an order first."	This topic will be addressed after implementation of collections development policies data gathering.
15-May-13	Discussion session	Terminology	Concern about the terminology of 'coherent collection' and its implications.	"The term 'intellectually coherent' was rephrased as 'cohesive collection'. Also, Recommendation #3 specifically discusses the art of collecting, also collecting data does not mean that collecting  cannot be an art."
15-May-13	Discussion session	Duplication	Observation that differing levels of public access in libraries may influence duplication of some materials.	Necessary duplication is acknowledged in the report (Recommendation #11)
15-May-13	Discussion session	Governance; Collections development policies	"Suggestion of having a council with a rotating membership for governing, rather than a single person. Also, an observation about current collections development policies having been written in 'silos'."	Governance topic was removed from Final Report
15-May-13	Discussion session	Governance; Collaboration and/or coordination (internal)	Query about how collaboratives can reach consensus.	"Governance topic was removed from Final Report; this topic might be addressed during the implementation phase. Decision rights issues, however, are acknowledged directly in the Final Report."
15-May-13	Discussion session	Governance	Query about what a single facilitator model might look like at Harvard.	Governance topic was removed from Final Report
15-May-13	Discussion session	Governance; Collections development policies	Query about whether the facilitator would oversee the rewriting of collections development policies.	Governance topic was removed from Final Report; this topic might be addressed during the implementation phase.
15-May-13	Discussion session	Harvard Depository; Scan and deliver	Correction to the document regarding Harvard Depository's participation in Scan and Deliver	Recommendation for scanning at HD was removed from the Final Report.
16-May-13	Library Staff Meeting	Collaboration and/or coordination (internal); Staffing concerns	Comment that librarians are already working collaboratively and that the report doesn't recognize staff time involved in those endeavors.	The Final Report now does explicitly acknowledge current collaborations  (e.g. Recommendation #7 with the Science Libraries Collaboratives)
16-May-13	Library Staff Meeting	General criticism	Clarity is sought on some of the recommendations and in justifying why some of the recommendations have been made.	The Final Report now does explicitly acknowledge current collaborations  (e.g. Recommendation #7 with the Science Libraries Collaboratives)
16-May-13	Library Staff Meeting	Digital materials; Infrastructure; General criticism	Suggestion made that the document should reflect the need for a robust infrastructure to support digital resources.	"Reflected in the Dependencies section of the Final Report, and in the cautions for Recommendation #4, Recommendation #10 calls for the development of a digitization program."
16-May-13	Library Staff Meeting	Differences between disciplines; Digital materials	Observation that the emphasis on digital content may be at the expense of those disciplines and users who prefer or need print materials.	"The Final Report acknowledges differences between disciplines in Challenges of Recommendation #1, and the Executive Summary, and in the text of Recommendation #1."
16-May-13	Library Staff Meeting	Digital materials (e-resources); General criticism	General observation that Springer has performed analysis on e-resource usage; this document should incorporate the results of that analysis.	None needed
16-May-13	Library Staff Meeting	Staffing concerns	Suggestion that the report should emphasize the need for more staff/staffing support in order to implement the recommendations.	"The Dependencies section of the Final Report specifically mentions the need for staff and staff enrichment. Also, staffing is a local decision."
16-May-13	Library Staff Meeting	Differences between disciplines; Digital materials	Observation that the emphasis on e-resources does not address the needs of all faculty.	"The Final Report acknowledges differences between disciplines in Challenges of Recommendation #1, and the Executive Summary, and in the text of Recommendation #1."
16-May-13	Library Staff Meeting	Differences between disciplines	Observation that differing disciplines have differing needs for print versus digital resources.	"The Final Report acknowledges differences between disciplines in Challenges of Recommendation #1, and the Executive Summary, and in the text of Recommendation #1."
16-May-13	Library Staff Meeting	Motivation	Query about the audience for this document.	"The audience is generally understood to be librarians, and the glossary was added for non-librarians, including faculty."
16-May-13	Library Staff Meeting	General criticism	Observation that the recommendations made in the document are out-of-step with the current state of Harvard Libraries	"Interviews with current leaders in the field that informed the document substantiate that these are the issues that are current. In the Introduction to the Final Report, the document reflects current discussion the field such as the Global Dimensions Conference in December 2012"
16-May-13	Library Staff Meeting	Collections development policies; General criticism	General dislike of the phrasing of the language employed in the collections development policies templates.	The Final Document avoids language in the collections development policy template that is overly prescriptive.
16-May-13	Library Staff Meeting	Digital materials (digitized from Harvard collections); Digital materials (e-resources)	Observation that some types of materials should be digitized immediately and that Harvard should not rely upon vendor to ensure long-term access for digital materials.	"Recommendation #1 addresses issue of trustworthy sources, and Recommendation #10 calls for the creation of a digitization program; Recommendation #3 acknowledges archival issues."
16-May-13	Library Staff Meeting	Differences between disciplines; Digital materials; Staffing concerns	Observation that reductions in staffing make it especially difficult to address digital needs as well as print needs.	"Staffing is a local issue and is not addressed explicitly in the Final Report except for in the Dependencies where the value/importance of staff and staff enrichment is emphasized. Overall, collaboration mitigates some of these issues."
16-May-13	Library Staff Meeting	Collecting for the ages (versus immediate needs); Terminology	Request that 'honing the scope of permanent collections' be rephrased to provide a more nuanced reading and to address the problem that focusing on current needs may be detrimental to collecting for the future.	"All of these topics are addressed in the Final Report, particularly language in Recommendation #2 has been changed to address concern."
16-May-13	Library Staff Meeting	Funding; Staffing concerns	"Concern that recommendation #3 has staffing implications, recommendation #1 has cost implications because digitization is expensive."	All of these overarching issues are addressed in the Final Report.
16-May-13	Library Staff Meeting	User-centric focus; Infrastructure; Collaboration and/or coordination (external)	Suggestion that Harvard could benefit from an infrastructure (possibly including Shibboleth) that would make resources seamlessly available to users; this would support recommendation #4.	The word 'seamless' was removed from the language of Recommendation #4.
16-May-13	Library Staff Meeting	Digital materials (digitized from Harvard collections); Faculty engagement; Staffing concerns	"General observation that digitization work does occur on behalf of the faculty, and that this work is expensive and time-consuming"	This issues is addressed in Recommendation #5 partnering with faculty.
16-May-13	Library Staff Meeting	General criticism	"Observation that costs and benefits (of recommendations, perhaps?) are not always clear in the document."	"Some recommendations, once adopted, will need costing , for example, the HD recommendation."
16-May-13	Library Staff Meeting	Harvard Depository; Implementation	General dislike was expressed over the idea of the Harvard Depository circulating holdings becoming one collection.	The reference to HD as single library was removed entirely and Recommendation #9 was reworded to review current use and support for the Harvard Depository.
16-May-13	Library Staff Meeting	Collections development policies	Comment that using Library of Congress subject classifications for collections development policies would be onerous and not provide a great deal of benefit.	The language in the Final Report's Recommendation #6 was altered to address local concerns.
16-May-13	Library Staff Meeting	Collaboration and/or coordination (internal)	"Comment that selectors already collaborate, especially in particular areas like human rights, archaeology, and food studies."	The Final Report recommends expanding and formalizing these collaborations.
16-May-13	Library Staff Meeting	Collections development policies	Observation that the Botany Library has found the collections development policy document useful.	None needed
16-May-13	Library Staff Meeting	Collections development policies; Motivation	Query about the purpose of collections development policies within the context of the report.	"The language in Recommendation #6 has been clarified to answer these questions, and other similar questions."
17-May-13	Individual Feedback	Collections life-cycle; Collections development policies	Assertion made that the collections life-cycle should be considered during acquisitions.	This is a process funding question that is outside the scope of this report. Recommendation #2 indirectly addresses lifecycle costs.
17-May-13	Individual Feedback	Collections life-cycle; Preservation	Assertion made that preservation and risk assessment should be part of the acquisitions workflow.	This is a process funding question that is outside the scope of this report. Recommendation #2 indirectly addresses lifecycle costs.
21-May-13	Individual Feedback	Collaboration and/or coordination (internal); Governance	Concern expressed that the governance models will create a burdensome bureaucracy and that collaboration is more a side-effect of culture rather than of structure.	"Recommendation #7 emphasizes the small size of collaboratives. Also, some of this would be addressed in a Governance section which was removed from this Final Report."
25-Apr-13	Affinity Group Meeting	Motivation	Query about the intended audience of this document.	"The audience is generally understood to be librarians, and the glossary was added for non-librarians, including faculty."
25-Apr-13	Affinity Group Meeting	Harvard Library Transition	Observation that the savings hoped for from the Harvard Library Transition will not materialize.	Discussion of implications of the Harvard Library Transition are out of scope for the Final Document.
25-Apr-13	Affinity Group Meeting	Digital materials; Digital materials (digitized from Harvard collections); Staffing concerns	"Concern that implementation of recommendations pertaining to digitization and digital materials will be costly (staff, money, time)"	"Recommendation #10 explicitly calls for the creation of a digitization program, Recommendation #4 acknowledges that greater investment in IT is needed to sustain and build collections; and in Dependencies for Success, #2 specifically identifies technology infrastructure as a necessary step. Staffing levels, in general, are a local issue and funding is outside the scope of the Final Report."
25-Apr-13	Affinity Group Meeting	Staffing concerns	"Perception that staff resources are stretched to the limit now, and that the document should reflect that reality when addressing implementation of recommendations."	Savings are not indicated as a prime driver of the Final Report. Attaining the best collection/content possible is the principle driver.  Report addresses new ways of doing business that may positively affect resources overall. Local staffing issues are not in scope for this report.
25-Apr-13	Affinity Group Meeting	Collections development policies	Series of comments about creating collections development policies to identify gaps and overlaps. LC categories may be insufficient.	Recommendation #6 was clarified to address local needs and to state more clearly what the goal of creating policies is.
25-Apr-13	Affinity Group Meeting	Collections development policies; Collections are local; Implementation	Observation that there is a tension between the freedom necessary to respond nimbly to changing patron needs and top-down organizational structures.	"The section on Governance has been removed from the Final Report.  Collaboratives emphasized for joint, beneficial decisions. Also reference to the need to address decision rights which, if clarified, will allow for easier decision-making."
25-Apr-13	Affinity Group Meeting	Governance	Discussion of pros and cons of differing governance models.	The section on Governance has been removed from the Final Report.
25-Apr-13	Affinity Group Meeting	Governance	Discussion of pros and cons of differing governance models.	The section on Governance has been removed from the Final Report.
25-Apr-13	Affinity Group Meeting	Governance; Funding; Implementation; Digital materials (digitized from Harvard collections)	Suggestion that there be a shared pool of money to support digitization.	Funding and implementation was not in scope for this Final Report.
25-Apr-13	Affinity Group Meeting	Differences in disciplines; Digital materials; Governance; Implementation	Proposal made to support bibliographers who specialize in specific materials formats (e.g. digital vs. print). Recognition that collecting is too big a job for a single person.	Staffing structures vary locally and are not in scope for this Final Report.
25-Apr-13	Affinity Group Meeting	Access versus ownership	Observation that a balance must be struck between permanence and impermanence when collecting.	"This is addressed indirectly in Final Report in Recommendations #1, #2, #3, and #5."
20-May-13	Individual Feedback	Governance; Collaboration and/or coordination (internal)	"Concern that creating facilitation structures may result in excessive bureaucracy, but acknowledgement that ground level collaboration and facilitating connections are  desirable."	"The Final Report emphasizes that selection remains a local activity. Discussion of governance was generally elided from Final Report, but collaboratives, described in Recommendation #7, address concerns about facilitating collaboration and making of connections at the ground level."
